For this project I wanted to go to another approach on Jason Briddle’s essay. From what I understand, the internet may provide everyone a lot of information. But on the other hand, it can also provide the wrong for certain people like kids and that could me a bad thing for their learning.

In the program, I create a game where the player takes control of avatar of a kid. The goal of the game is to catch the objects falling from the sky. The background represents on the kids mind on how they interpret the internet: a place full of fun things to play with. The objects represents the type of information where it looks harmless and fun but it gets grim and it shows how violent, or how harsh some information in the internet can have. The first background image shows the a dreamlike landscape a lot stuff can happen like fun activities.

The small box under the sprite represents the mind of the kid. It is limited, not as well developed which the player had a small space to work with. The player either tries to avoid the falling objects with no end of the game or fall off the screen which doesn’t solve the problem because the game repeats itself because the game has to be played by someone. And evne if that person plays the game, the game would still turn out the same result because when the game is played in its entirety, the outcome of that shows  that the kid’s mind is being overwhelmed by the grim truth of what happening out there in the world. Also, if the player decides to stop catching items halfway through the game, the state of the game doesn’t change back even if the player decides to just dodge the falling items. I wanted to show my interpretation of the topic from Briddle’s essay because I did not wanted to go for the obvious path of going for a path of making a program about watching videos online and the effect that could affect the mind of the kids.

I went with P5 for the programing because I’m more familiar and more comfortable with the program compare to the others that I’ve learned so far. And still give me more options of what I wanted to do of the result that I wanted for my game. I wanted to go for the game route because I wanted to be more than just be interactive. Also, I wanted to be as engaging as I could because to me, playing a game is more fun and I get more out of it from learning what’s the statement of the creator compares to a normal written essay. To add on the speech synthesis that is in the program, I thought it was funny to use it as a sound effect when the player jumps. And when the player gets the object falling from the sky. And I thought it would be also if the game gave a comment about not ruining the kid’s again.         
